I guess you can relate it to somewhat of
like a stage or a theater if you will
the back of the house is what the guests
don't see they do everything from order
the food receiving the food prep the
food cook it the front of the house is
everything that the audience would see
from the outside to the front door to
the bar kind of the onstage players if
you will that interact with the guests
once Labor Day comes it's like someone
turns a switch and the phones start
picking up and then it gets pretty
dramatic especially as we go towards
Thanksgiving in the holiday season we're
doing four to seven hundred people on a
given day and that doesn't even begin to
count the number of plates that each one
of those folks who might taste while
they're here I don't think that we've
ever done a tally on the amount of
dishes because I think that it might
kind of blow everybody's mind imagine
the Green Market is open four days a
week and we buy close to a thousand
pounds of produce each one of those days
reservationist job here is I think for
holding him I help you by challenging at
times you have to be somewhat of a
concierge for our guests who are calling
from around the world around the block
all told it's about 160,000 people that
walk through this restaurant every year
Roberta is an artist she's magical she
really has an incredible touch there's a
swarm of people that Roberta has lined
up to kind of help transform this
restaurant into the holidays she gets
here on Friday after Thanksgiving
usually about 1:00 in the morning
there's never a plan it's very
spontaneous that's why it's so different
every year
during the holiday is the restaurant has
this instinctual pull you smell the
smokiness from the wood-burning fire you
get a sense of celebration from the
handmade ornaments
they're called cute Orion kissing balls
and this basically is a traditional
pine-covered ball that you hang from the
ceiling and I did a few of those and
then the whole thing evolved into these
massive grapevine covered well you have
to come and see it the whole restaurant
is transformed into a holiday spirit and
it all happens magically overnight
well not magically it's a lot of work
that's involved in it
there's nothing like this place the
space the smell you know Danny says that
he can smell Gramercy Tavern from two
blocks away
what would a tavern have always been
like if not welcoming in a warm place to
hang out what people should feel here is
a sense of welcome genuine welcome one
it brings a smile to everyone's face and
taste good too it's amazing how many
people come in every year and say oh my
god this is the best time at Gramercy
Tavern
you